
zone
====
Manages Solaris zones.
**Autorequires:** If Puppet is managing the directory specified as the root
of
the zone's filesystem (with the `path` attribute), the zone resource will
autorequire that directory.


Parameters
----------

- **autoboot**
    Whether the zone should automatically boot.
    Valid values are `true`, `false`. 

- **clone**
    Instead of installing the zone, clone it from another zone.
    If the zone root resides on a zfs file system, a snapshot will be
    used to create the clone; if it resides on a ufs filesystem, a copy of
    the
    zone will be used. The zone from which you clone must not be running.

- **create_args**
    Arguments to the `zonecfg` create command.  This can be used to create
    branded zones.

- **dataset**
    The list of datasets delegated to the non-global zone from the
    global zone.  All datasets must be zfs filesystem names which are
    different from the mountpoint.

- **ensure**
    The running state of the zone.  The valid states directly reflect
    the states that `zoneadm` provides.  The states are linear,
    in that a zone must be `configured`, then `installed`, and
    only then can be `running`.  Note also that `halt` is currently
    used to stop zones.
    Valid values are `absent`, `configured`, `installed`, `running`. 

- **id**
    The numerical ID of the zone.  This number is autogenerated
    and cannot be changed.

- **inherit**
    The list of directories that the zone inherits from the global
    zone.  All directories must be fully qualified.

- **install_args**
    Arguments to the `zoneadm` install command.  This can be used to create
    branded zones.

- **ip**
    The IP address of the zone.  IP addresses **must** be specified
    with an interface, and may optionally be specified with a default router
    (sometimes called a defrouter). The interface, IP address, and default
    router should be separated by colons to form a complete IP address
    string.
    For example: `bge0:192.168.178.200` would be a valid IP address string
    without a default router, and `bge0:192.168.178.200:192.168.178.1` adds
    a
    default router to it.
    For zones with multiple interfaces, the value of this attribute should
    be
    an array of IP address strings (each of which must include an interface
    and may include a default router).

- **iptype**
    The IP stack type of the zone.
Valid values are `shared`, `exclusive`. 

- **name**
    The name of the zone.

- **path**
    The root of the zone's filesystem.  Must be a fully qualified
    file name.  If you include `%s` in the path, then it will be
    replaced with the zone's name.  Currently, you cannot use
    Puppet to move a zone. Consequently this is a readonly property.

- **pool**
    The resource pool for this zone.

- **realhostname**
    The actual hostname of the zone.

- **shares**
    Number of FSS CPU shares allocated to the zone.

- **sysidcfg**
    The text to go into the `sysidcfg` file when the zone is first
    booted.  The best way is to use a template:
    # $confdir/modules/site/templates/sysidcfg.erb
        system_locale=en_US
        timezone=GMT
        terminal=xterms
        security_policy=NONE
        root_password=<%= password %>
        timeserver=localhost
        name_service=DNS {domain_name=<%= domain %> name_server=<%=
    nameserver %>}
        network_interface=primary {hostname=<%= realhostname %>
          ip_address=<%= ip %>
          netmask=<%= netmask %>
          protocol_ipv6=no
          default_route=<%= defaultroute %>}
        nfs4_domain=dynamic
    
    And then call that:
    zone { myzone:
          ip           => "bge0:192.168.0.23",
          sysidcfg     => template("site/sysidcfg.erb"),
          path         => "/opt/zones/myzone",
          realhostname => "fully.qualified.domain.name"
        }
    
    The `sysidcfg` only matters on the first booting of the zone,
    so Puppet only checks for it at that time.


Providers
---------
    solaris
